so the second enabling technology for
our next-generation GPU is 3d packaging
we're gonna for the first time build
chips on top of other chips and we're
going to pile heterogeneous chips
meaning different types of chips on one
wafer it starts out with a base wafer
where interconnections are being done
among the chips so instead of going off
to a PC board we're doing the internship
routing on the wafer thousands of little
bumps characterized by that vertical
signal on these chips are flipped and
bumped onto the base wafer we're putting
so many bits in fact the memory
interface went from hundreds of bits to
thousands of bits thousands of bits if
you could just imagine a GPU with
thousands and thousands of memory
interface bits the question is how do
you put those bits on our chip and how
do you connect them to all of the memory
well the way they solve that problem is
we stack all of the memory chips one on
top of each other and we punch holes
through the memory using through-silicon
vias and each chip each DRAM is then
stacked on top of each other the stack
DRAM which is 3d memory is stacked on
top of a wafer that wafer because it's a
silicon substrate can now have wires
incredibly incredibly small that
connects it to our GPU and together it
forms an interface that delivers an
unbelievable amount of bandwidth a huge
leap and so if you take a look at that
chart the solid green line is where we
came from
and as you can tell we've been trying to
deal with the memory bandwidth problem
for some time although we are already
the highest bandwidth processor in the
system there's so much more bandwidth we
wish we had and we want to continue to
scale with Moore's Law we're gonna have
to solve this
well 3d memory and 3d packaging using
this heterogeneous 3d chip on wafer
integration makes it possible for us to
take a giant leap forward the green
dotted lines gives you a sense of where
we're headed in just a couple of years
we're gonna take bandwidth to a whole
new level and so the question is what
are we going to call this chip this is
one of the great chips one of the great
GPUs we've ever made and it incorporates
in addition to architectural innovations
that will reveal to you over time
incorporates these two enabling
technologies first time we've ever used
it as a company we're testing it
rigorously now and we're excited about
the results what should we call this
chip well we should certainly call this
chip and name it after somebody name it
after a scientist that we all recognize
and admire and Blaise Pascal is really
the perfect name Blaise Pascal a
Frenchman in the 17th century at the age
of seventeen sixteen invented the
mechanical calculator he's responsible
for probably probabilistic theory to
help a friend who apparently had a
gambling problem he's the man behind the
Pascal's theorem we're intersecting
lines from points on an iconic all lie
on what is called the Pascal line the
Pascal's theorem is foundational to many
of the works that we do in projective
geometry Pascal's law of hydrodynamics
is applied to hydraulic lifts hydraulic
brakes were surrounded by his work the
unit of pressure is named after Pascal
and a program language is named after
Pascal it is very appropriate for us to
introduce to you our next generation GPU
Pascal
Pascal is really amazing on several
levels let me show you this is the
Pascal computer this little module here
represents the processor of next
generation supercomputers next
generation workstations next generation
gaming PC's next generation cloud
supercomputers it's based on a
technology called MV link uses 3d memory
to amplify the bandwidth between GPU and
memory subsystem and it fits in a module
that is 1/3 the size of PCI Express this
little tiny module is elegant is just
really really beautiful this is the test
module for Pascal and so what's Pascal
gonna do well here we're showing you
some of the results this is s gem
simulation comparing to our previous
generation GPUs at constant power at
constant power ISO power comparing
generations of our GPU as you can see
because of MV link because of 3d memory
because of the architectural innovations
of Pascal we can now continue to scale
with Moore's law a scale that most
people feel that will eventually fall
off of but it's not going to happen with
Pascal we're gonna continue to sagale
performance in fact all are even predict
that in multi-gpu environments and in
large configurations Pascal will do even
better than previous generations and the
reason for that is MV link now the
question then is what are we gonna do
with all this computational horsepower
what are we gonna do with all these
flops what are we going to do with a
processor that's essentially a
supercomputer
the size no bigger than two credit cards